[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Throughout history, the
third eye has been a topic
sequestered to secrecy, isolated
in a cult. But in the brain,
the third eye is in the center.
Through the imagery
of ancient mysticism,
this all-seeing eye has had
several interpretations.
Most believe that we have
some psychic eye within us.
But the question
is, are the visions
we see with it a
form of channeling?
>> I wanted one simple answer.
I wanted to just
discover the one easy way
to know how channeling works.
And what we found
in Mount Shasta
was that there were likely
so many different ways that
channeling works,
and that it depended
on the type of channeling
that the person was doing.
And so, in channeling that we
received about how it worked,
there was this idea
that information
in the form of light came
through the pineal gland.
The pineal gland is a master
gland, transmuted that light
in some way to
influence the DNA.
Because our pineal gland
has light sensors within it.
It's the small gland within
the center of the brain,
and it has long been
anecdotally known
to be associated with psychic
abilities and channeling
abilities.
>> The pineal gland is right
where the third eye is,
the sixth chakra.
This is something that
Plato even talked about.
He told us that we
have a third eye.
It may be the seat of seeing.
And so, anything we can do
to clear off our pineal gland
and open it up is going to
support us in this oracle work.
>> The pineal gland is the
more spiritual trigger,
in my view of things.
It is a catalytic converter,
if you will, for spirit energy.
Your quintessence coming
down through your body,
rising up from somewhere
else in your body
and catalyzing within
the pineal gland.
I've seen pineal glands that
have the energetic colors
of a Pixar movie, and that
is a person who is awake,
but they don't know
how awake they are yet.
And so, they need to do their
work-- yoga, Tai Chi, prayer,
chanting, a walkabout,
whatever they need to do.
Find a place where
they're happiest,
and that will catalyze
that even more.
The pineal gland is important
equally to the basal ganglia.
The basal ganglia is
really the end point
of the intuitive
system in the brain
because the gut level intuitive
system and the vagal system
tell the brain what to do
and the pineal, what to do.
When language comes
up into the brain,
the basal ganglia
is the one that
translates that
into whatever sector
the visual, auditory,
kinesthetic language
aspects of the brain.
And then, the pineal,
which is really
like the all-seeing eye in
the brain, watching all this
happen, and it will catalyze
at a different level.
The brain catalyzes
it at our human level.
The pineal gland catalyzes
our spiritual level.
And so, it's our job
to integrate the two.
>> There's a fascinating
relationship between solar
flares, and
geomagnetic activity,
and channeling experiences.
So when geomagnetic
activity is high,
we see a higher incidence of
expressive type channeling
experiences.
It's like seeing ghosts,
or poltergeists, or mind
over matter type experiences.
When geomagnetic
activity is low,
there's a higher prevalence of
clairaudience, clairvoyance,
telepathy, things like that.
I think that's a very
fascinating relationship
between our planet, and us being
on the planet, and our larger
universe.
What's also fascinating
about that is it
connects to our pineal gland.
And so, we see this connection
between geomagnetic activity
and the pineal gland,
and the pineal gland
and this supposed relationship
to channeling experiences.
>> Several channeled messages
center around connecting with
the cosmos above to provide
guidance and power to us below.
The ancient practice of sun
gazing during the sunrise
and sunset hours has been
thought to stimulate and ignite
visions within this mysterious
all-seeing eye in our brain.
What happens when we
consciously tune and connect
our sixth chakra with
the other chakras?
>> I think to understand our
innate abilities to channel,
in other words, just to open our
awareness to the greater nature
of reality itself, is, how
do our bodies tune with this
cosmic information, this
universal information
that's available to us.
And our bodies
themselves, of course,
are coherent
informational entities,
which are always within
themselves, and also
in our surroundings, and with
the whole universe, sharing
information, whether
aware of it or not.
And there are certain
attributes of our bodies,
such as some of our
endocrine glands,
such as our nervous system
that are particularly attuned,
that are particularly
able to transduce
large amounts of information.
And our pineal gland, which
is the perceived Ashna
chakra or insight
chakra, is one of those.
It's an amazing
informational network
that can process enormous
amounts of information
and then share it throughout
our bodily perspectives.
We have other aspects.
The chakras,
generally, are deemed
to be moderators
of that information
or transfer between us
and the wider cosmos.
>> Chakras are the
electromagnetics that come off
of your nervous system.
There are seven primary chakras.
And when I look at them--
and you can have your own
experience, but I think this
is a place for you to start--
you feel something,
say, in your belly
because the third chakra is
located in the solar plexus.
When you feel
butterflies, that's
your third chakra ticking off.
So it extends out of
the body in the front
and extends out of the body in
the back, same with the heart--
the front and the back.
Throat-- front and back.
Sixth chakra, where you
can see, front and back.
Seventh chakra, up
to your quintessence.
And your quintessence
comes down through it
and feeds all of the energy
centers in your body.
What's so interesting
about it is
that it integrates with the
nervous system of the spine.
There's one in the root
that extends straight down
in between the legs off of
the coccyx, the tailbone
of the body.
The second chakra is in
the lower abdominal area
and goes through the front
and the back of the body.
These are the primary ones,
and they guide your life.
The southern hemisphere guides
the root and rudimentary parts
of your primal life.
The upper chakras,
they're your spirit world.
And the heart is the integrator.
>> The chakra system is an
energy dynamic system that is
operating in energy field
that are both parallel
and inter-dimensional.
And so, they're
operating gateways,
like a stargate, that opens up
different levels of information
throughout the universal
field of intelligence.
And the more you
begin to understand
that the chakra is not just
a spinning ball of energy,
it's a stargate.
>> Ancient mystical
traditions talked,
not of a sevenfold
chakra system,
which is our sense
of personal self.
So if you like, it's
our informational field
that moderates and mediates
our personal sense of self
and plugs us into that
greater cosmic wholeness.
But they talk about a
12-fold chakra system,
where, as part of
mystical journeys,
our awareness expands as it
were to higher vibrational
levels of awareness,
where we can literally
attune progressively with
more and more archetypal
expansive aspects of
universal consciousness.
But it seems to me that,
now, we are everyday mystics
in the sense that more and
more people are expanding
our awareness beyond that
sevenfold chakra system
into transpersonal awareness.
And for me, that has been
guided by this understanding
of an 8th, 9th, 10th,
11th, 12th chakra.
They're revealing that we have
this ability and, perhaps,
this evolutionary
opportunity to be embodied
as what the ancients and
the mystical traditions
would call Christed or
Buddhic consciousness.
So the more that we attune our
bodies through inner practices,
mindfulness, meditation--
this was the ancient tradition--
we are literally tuning up
our entire information system
to more easily access such
universal non-local cosmic
information.
>> So learn about chakras.
They're valuable.
They're an important
part of your radar,
of how you feel in your body
and in the world around you.
You learn to play with them
because they're guiding you.
They are a reflection
of your nervous system.
of your spirit
and your soul inside your body,
and they will help guide you.
They help you heal.
>> The powerful art of plant
medicine has been used to help
humans ignite their third
eye, unlock dormant memories,
and pierce the veil
to other dimensions.
Shamans, throughout history,
have been the major guides
for humanity to discover
the spiritual and healing
powers of the plant
kingdom, but shamanism also
has several other forms of
connecting with the spirit
world.
>> Many, many traditions, many
traditions have worked with
multidimensional communications,
channeling to gain great
guidance.
I remember stories
of researchers
going into the Amazon jungle
and speaking with the shamans
there, who have an encyclopedic
knowledge of plants and plant
medicine.
And when asked, how
did you get to this?
The response was, we were told.
The plants told us.
The plants were guiding us as
to what was beneficial for us.
And I think such channeling,
such openness to this guidance
is universal across
human experience.
>> Shamanism is
about relationship.
It's about the relationship
to nature, ancestor, food,
community.
Everything is a relationship.
When we look at shamanism--
and people think shamanism,
they always associate
it to plant medicine.
The Western world has
basically turned shamanism
into a Hollywood gimmick.
When people think shaman, they
think Native American culture,
Peruvian culture.
They don't understand
that the core of shamanism
has come from Africa,
Mongolia, and has spread out
from the Maori to
the Aboriginals
and the Sami people
of the Nordics.
When we talk about
medicine in shamanism,
the way we look at medicine is
the information and knowledge
that you bring
through your being.
So you are medicine
to the world.
So a lot of times,
people think, medicine,
they think just plant medicine.
That's a very different thing.
The other understanding
of shamanism
is what type of shaman are you?
Now, there's earth
shamans, who, as you know,
deal with different
types of medicines.
They're very knowledgeable of
the different medicines that
are available, and
they know how it's
going to affect the
spirits of the body
because it's all connected
to the earth, the body.
So this is mother nature.
So a lot of times, when
people think of mother nature,
they think Mother
Nature is earth.
Your body is made
up of everything
that Mother Nature
is, so this is earth.
So they are aware of what earth
requires in order to heal it,
to replenish it, to
give it its sustenance
that it needs in order
for it to continue to be
ever expanding and ever living.
Then, there are water shamans.
Water shamans deal more
with emotional content.
And then, there are
the fire shamans.
African tribes, there's
a lot of fire shamans.
They represent the aspect of
fire, which is the masculine.
It's a very masculine
ritual, and it also
is there to break your mind.
It's there to take your
mind apart by intensities
until you literally
come undone, and then
that's how you actually start to
heal, and change, and so forth.
The air shamans are the ones who
create sound, chanting, music,
anything that can take you
into a trance-like state.
A lot of times, you see people
who are speaking in tongues.
Shamans who will use music that
take you into a trance, this
is air shamanism.
And then, the spirit also
has the spirit shamanism,
which is what I am, where
we not only make sounds,
but we also commune
with all the spirits.
So the spirit shaman is
one who uses frequency.
We use sound.
We can have things
come through us
and bring new information
through sound.
So if I was to have a
spirit come through,
I can-- right now, I can
hear the spirit speaking
in the spirit world.
One spirit is saying,
[NON-ENGLISH]..
And I see these three men there,
dancing in the spirit world,
saying this over and over.
I hear this.
So then, I just let
it come through,
and I speak it into this world.
And then, powerful
things start to happen.
>> As with most knowledge
passed down through shamanic
practices, misuse and
misunderstanding of these
sacred practices and plant
rituals have connected humans
to spirits from less
desirable dimensions.
>> So there's controversy today
about the use of psychedelics
in the oracle field and
by anyone, in general.
There are two sides
of the coin here.
One is that, yes, these plants
are a major opener for us
to be able to get information.
On the other, there
are hazards that
can come with it, including
getting connected with beings
that you might not
want, and there's
discussion as to whether
these astral realms are being
hijacked by unfriendly forces.
And this also goes
along with how
these plants may be transmuted,
hybridded, changed around.
They're not exactly
what they used
to be when we were working
in a more pure way with them.
So there are some risks that
go along with using them.
That said, many, many
people are starting
to open up to the reality
of other dimensions
and are being able to
receive information.
>> Psychedelics are a very
interesting way of bringing
about the channeling
state because they do have
the ability to open that
gateway to intelligent infinity.
And anyone who's
taken psychedelics,
at least at a certain dosage,
understands the ability
these plant medicines
have to connect you
with higher consciousness.
But it does come at
somewhat of a price tag
because psychedelics
use up enormous volumes
of our vital energy,
which can get us
into these very high states
and then drop us out of them
very abruptly.
>> Ayahuasca and other
psychedelics give you
an experience in your brain.
They don't change your
spiritual aptitude.
Not at all.
They may give you an experience
that feels very spiritual,
and that's authentic to that
person, but it doesn't last.
They still go back to the
office grumpy, or searching,
and we're always searching.
We're always searching.
But if you really want
to shift the gears
inside your precious neurons,
and open up your heart,
and open up the soul so it
starts moving through you,
the simplest practices
are always the best,
and that, really, is meditation.
And also, beyond that,
your skill of observation,
paying attention to
the way you feel.
Everybody's empathic.
Some are off the scale
empathic, and it's hard on them.
I understand.
But pay attention to it,
and learn to rise above it.
You won't need the psychedelics.
They're interesting,
so I've heard,
but they're also really
hard on the body.
And somebody who's had brain
issues, and brain surgery,
and was lucky enough
to come through it
and still stand
up vertically, you
don't want to mess
with your brain.
You need it.
>> I think that we need
to be wise in our use.
We need to have a lot
of teaching and guidance
in this realm, if
we're really going
to have sacred
medicines be useful
and not turn into
something negative.
>> The natural teachers
provided by the Earth are
for the purpose of helping to
remind you where you really
come from, what you really are,
connecting you to different
levels of your consciousness,
to different dimensions
of experience.
The natural teachers
of the Earth,
when not abused or falling
into a crutch or an addiction,
can be very helpful.
But always remember that once
you have allowed yourself
to experience the
vibrational state that
is created by allowing yourself
to work with those plant
teachers or other natural
teachers from the Earth,
once you are familiar
with that frequency,
you don't necessarily need the
teacher anymore to recreate it.
Beyond a certain point,
it becomes an addiction
and a crutch, whether
physically or psychologically.
So it's always about
self empowerment.
It's always about
taking responsibility
for the vibration, knowing
that once you know what
a vibration felt like,
you're already in that state,
even if it doesn't
feel the same.
Because you cannot experience
what you're not already
the vibration of.
So you have to be the
vibration of an experience
to even remember you
had an experience.
That's the trick.
>> A unified message delivered
through mystics, shamans,
plants, and messengers reminds
us that a balanced connection
to the planet is a powerful
practice for spiritual
transformation.
>> We are reminding you to
channel your incredible force
energy.
And the higher, the more
that you embody these things
from this higher intelligence,
the more information
can come through.
But where's it going to
go if it is not utilized,
if it is not put
into action to create
new systems, new ways
of seeing health,
new ways of
connecting with body,
new ways of collaborating, with
reconnecting with the Earth's
intelligence, yes?
What about the
Earth's intelligence?
What is coming up through
Earth at all times?
Incredible intelligence and
life force, allowing you to be.
And there's incredible
amounts of information
that we are just
generally not aware of.
And so, this is that
saying of above and below.
It is within all things.
>> For thousands of years, we
have been walking this planet,
this Earth, this land,
staring at the waves of water,
wondering who we are.
From all over the horizon,
it reached us, the question,
who are we?
Who am I?
Human.
>> As messengers guide us to
find the divinity within all
things and our spiritual
site becomes stronger,
what messages will be received
when we consciously connect
our third eye to the rhythm of
our heart and this beautiful
planet?
>> There are journeys of
consciousness that no one can
take but you.
And yet, you take them
as you take steps.
In other terms,
what have I learned?
And you leave a mark for
your brothers and sisters
to follow in their
own explorations.
>> If you could see
yourselves as we see you,
there would be no
discontent, no argument.
You would honor each other
appropriately with love.
You would be collaborative and
not separating, not judging.
You would be assisting
each other more
fully than you do today.
And it's better today,
even though it seems not,
than it's been in the past.
When you love
yourself enough, there
is that solid state within
you that you call God.
And from that place of being
is the utopia, the peace
you seek in the world.
And it is happening now.